[Style guide] Grammar and Formatting (#9263)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/style-guide/grammar-and-formatting/code-block-guidelines.md

---
pcx_content_type: Concept
title: Code Block Guidelines
---

## Code Block Guidelines (language, command prompts)

### Fenced code blocks - basic Markdown syntax

You can create code blocks by:

+ (Recommended) Using triple-acute characters as a "fence" around the code block.
+ Indenting lines by four spaces or one tab.

> To define the syntax highlighting language used for the code block, enter a language name after the first fence. Refer to the List of languages being used in Dev Docs at the end of this page for a list of supported languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define the syntax highlighting language used for the code block, enter a language name after the first fence. Refer to the List of languages used in Cloudflare documentation for a list of supported languages.
```

> Use the `txt` language when there's no appropriate syntax hightlighting (for example, a fragment of an Apache configuration file).

Reviewer: avoid contractions

> JSON example:

Reviewer: it might look nicer to add a header instead of just a body text for "JSON example:"
You can do so by adding after the first ```
---
header: [title]
---

```
```json
{
  "firstName": "John",
  "lastName": "Smith",
  "age": 25
}```
```
The rendered output looks like this:

```
{
  "firstName": "John",
  "lastName": "Smith",
  "age": 25
}
```

### Displaying terminal commands

Use the `sh` language for **one-line commands** executed in the Linux/macOS terminal (each command must be in a single line).

Each line containing a command that the user should enter must start with a `$` sign. The reader will be able to select these prefixed lines with commands, but no other lines in the code block (which should be command output).

> Note that the "Copy to clipboard" button (top-right corner of the code block) will copy the entire content, not just what the reader can select.

Reviewer: Notes should be added as an <aside>

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Use the `bash` language for (other) **Linux/macOS/generic commands without a JSON body**:

+ Commands that span multiple lines (usually each line ends with a \) and do not contain several lines of JSON content.
+ Commands for other platforms (Windows console, Windows PowerShell) or for specific shells (for example, a command specifically for the zsh shell, where the prompt is usually #).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Use `json` for **commands containing more than one line of JSON** (for example, a POST request using cURL).

### Terminal prompts

#### For "sh" blocks

+ Use "$ " (dollar sign, space) or "FOLDER_NAME $ " (folder name, space, dollar sign, space).

Example:
$ command-to-run
~/my-folder $ command-to-run     (where `~` means the home folder of the current user).

> #### For "bash" blocks

Reviewer: the whole section for bash blocks is not rendering well on the docs site

+ Blocks containing Linux/macOS/generic commands:
Use the same prefixes as for `sh`, even if they're not mandatory — "$ " (dollar sign, space) or "FOLDER_NAME $ " (folder name, space, dollar sign, space).

+ Blocks containing Windows console commands:
Use "FOLDER_NAME>" (folder name, bigger than symbol, no space after).
Alternatively, do not include any prompt and start the line with the command the user must enter (knowing that it will be harder to understand what must be entered and what is example output).

  Examples:
  C:\>command-to-run.exe
  C:\Program Files>command-to-run.exe
  C:\Users\JohnDoe>command-to-run.exe

+ Blocks containing PowerShell commands:
Use "PS FOLDER_NAME> " (the `>` is part of the prompt, and there's a space after it).

  Examples:
  PS C:\Users\JohnDoe> command-to-run.exe
  PS C:\> command-to-run.exe

+ Blocks containing zsh commands:
Use "# " (hash sign, space) or "FOLDER_NAME # " (folder name, space, hash sign, space). Very similar to `sh` blocks but with a hash sign instead of a dollar sign.

  Examples:
  "# command"
  ~/my-folder # command        (where `~` means the home folder of the current user).

> ## List of languages being used in Dev Docs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## List of languages used in Cloudflare developer documentation
```

> + bash (alias: curl)

Reviewer: would be helpful to add backticks to all these languages 
ex: `bash` (alias: `curl`)

+ c
+ diff
+ go
+ graphql
+ hcl (alias: tf)
+ html
+ ini
+ java
+ js (alias: javascript)
+ json
+ kotlin
+ python (alias: py)
+ ruby (alias: rb)
+ rust (alias: rs)
+ sh (alias: shell)
+ sql
+ swift
+ toml
+ ts (alias: typescript)
+ txt (aliases: text, plaintext)
+ xml
+ yaml (alias: yml)

Different capitalizations of the languages above are also supported (but not recommended). For example, JavaScript will be rendered using the javascript language, and HTML will use the html language.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Notes about JSON code blocks

Use the json language for:

+ JSON blocks or fragments.
Note: JSON fragments may appear with a red background in GitHub because they're not valid JSON. Make it clear in the documentation that it's a fragment and not an entire piece of valid JSON content.

+ Multi-line cURL commands with a body, usually with a -d or --data command-line argument.

> These are usually POST requests, and we should provide syntax highlighting for the essential part of the request, which is usually the body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are usually `POST` requests, and we should provide syntax highlighting for the essential part of the request, which is usually the body.
```

---
pcx_content_type: Concept
title: Code Block Guidelines
---

> ## Code Block Guidelines (language, command prompts)

Author: Gotcha, thank you! Will make that change on all the pages.

### Fenced code blocks - basic Markdown syntax

You can create code blocks by:

> + (Recommended) Using triple-acute characters as a "fence" around the code block.

Reviewer: Might just be me but I usually put (recommended) or (optional) at the end of the sentence. Up to your judgment though!

+ Indenting lines by four spaces or one tab.

> To define the syntax highlighting language used for the code block, enter a language name after the first fence. Refer to the [List of languages used in Cloudflare developer documentation](/style-guide/grammar-and-formatting/code-block-guidelines/#list-of-languages-being-used-in-dev-docs) at the end of this page for a list of supported languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define the syntax highlighting language used for the code block, enter a language name after the first fence. Refer to the [List of languages used in Cloudflare developer documentation](/style-guide/grammar-and-formatting/code-block-guidelines/#list-of-languages-being-used-in-dev-docs) for a list of supported languages.
```

Use the `txt` language when there is no appropriate syntax highlighting (for example, a fragment of an Apache configuration file).

> ### JSON example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### JSON example
```

```
```json
{
  "firstName": "John",
  "lastName": "Smith",
  "age": 25
}```
```
The rendered output looks like this:

```
{
  "firstName": "John",
  "lastName": "Smith",
  "age": 25
}
```

### Displaying terminal commands

Use the `sh` language for **one-line commands** executed in the Linux/macOS terminal (each command must be in a single line).

Each line containing a command that the user should enter must start with a `$` sign. The reader will be able to select these prefixed lines with commands, but no other lines in the code block (which should be command output).

> {{<Aside type="note">}} The "Copy to clipboard" button (top-right corner of the code block) will copy the entire content, not just what the reader can select.{{</Aside>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="note">}} The **Copy to clipboard** button (top-right corner of the code block) will copy the entire content, not just what the reader can select.{{</Aside>}}
```

Use the `bash` language for (other) **Linux/macOS/generic commands without a JSON body**:

+ Commands that span multiple lines (usually each line ends with a \) and do not contain several lines of JSON content.
+ Commands for other platforms (Windows console, Windows PowerShell) or for specific shells (for example, a command specifically for the zsh shell, where the prompt is usually #).

Use `json` for **commands containing more than one line of JSON** (for example, a `POST` request using `cURL`).

### Terminal prompts

#### For "sh" blocks

+ Use "$ " (dollar sign, space) or "FOLDER_NAME $ " (folder name, space, dollar sign, space).

  Examples:

>   $ command-to-run

Reviewer: are these two separate examples? there might be a better way to make that stand out

Author: That's true, they do blend together on the site. Are bullet points a better format? I think a table would be too short.

  ~/my-folder $ command-to-run (where `~` means the home folder of the current user).

> #### For "bash" blocks

Reviewer: can you format this section to follow how it looks like on the wiki site? some words are bolded on there but not here.

+ Blocks containing PowerShell commands:

  Use "PS FOLDER_NAME> " (the `>` is part of the prompt, and there is a space after it).

  Examples:

  PS C:\Users\JohnDoe> command-to-run.exe
  
  PS C:\> command-to-run.exe

+ Blocks containing zsh commands:

  Use "# " (hash sign, space) or "FOLDER_NAME # " (folder name, space, hash sign, space). Very similar to `sh` blocks but with a hash sign instead of a dollar sign.

  Examples:

  "# command"
  
  ~/my-folder # command        (where `~` means the home folder of the current user).

## List of languages being used in Cloudflare Developer Documentation

+ `bash` (alias: `curl`)
+ `c`
+ `diff`
+ `go`
+ `graphql`
+ `hcl` (alias: `tf`)
+ `html`
+ `ini`
+ `java`
+ `js` (alias: `javascript`)
+ `json`
+ `kotlin`
+ `python` (alias: `py`)
+ `ruby` (alias: `rb`)
+ `rust` (alias: `rs`)
+ `sh` (alias: `shell`)
+ `sql`
+ `swift`
+ `toml`
+ `ts` (alias: `typescript`)
+ `txt` (aliases: `text`, `plaintext`)
+ `xml`
+ `yaml` (alias: `yml`)

Different capitalizations of the languages above are also supported (but not recommended). For example, JavaScript will be rendered using the javascript language, and HTML will use the html language.

> ### Notes about JSON code blocks

Reviewer: might be better to move this section above to join the other "code blocks" examples and rename the title to match the 'sh' and 'bash' ones
